well howdy there internet people it's
beau again
so today we're going to talk about
hamilton don't worry if you haven't seen
it it's not going to ruin it for you you
can still enjoy it we're going to kind
of take the back roads
not really going to talk about the plot
very much not really going to talk about
the music
we're going to talk about why it
resonated and is still resonating
five years after it prepared why people
who
generally don't enjoy theater or drawing
inspiration from it
why it isn't typical
and the easy answer here of course
is the music
granted very different than most stuff
on broadway
absolutely but it's way more than that
it's resonating because it's relatable
while it is still the classic american
story
you know the immigrant orphan rags to
riches self-educated self-made man
who lived the american dream yeah it's
that
it is but it does a really good job
of shining a light on american mythology
as opposed to american history
i'm of the firm belief that
facts and truth aren't always the same
thing you can use facts to paint a false
narrative
sometimes fiction
is uh the easiest way to get it at truth
especially if a false narrative has been
accepted for so long
that it appears true
you know today when we talk about the
government
it's become so corrupt become
as if it wasn't corrupt before
the scandals of today
because all of our founders were very
moral people
none of this would have happened back
then they were all ideologically
motivated with the purest intentions
that's how it's framed we treat our
founders
and the founding of this country as a
myth
we don't really care about the truth
about the realities of it
they were people they were flawed
guaranteed
hamilton does a really good job of
showing that
and showing that there are a lot of
things that are wrong today
that were wrong then
and it does it so subtly
that i'm not sure people
realize that they're hearing what they
heard
it doesn't matter really if they
recognize it
they don't may not know they heard it
but they did
and i think that is why
it's inspiring a lot of young people
today because they're getting a
a very artistic representation of the
fact that a lot of the things they
believe
are true that a lot of the issues
that they're facing they're not bugs in
the american system
they're features of it
as a kid in the caribbean i wished for a
war
i knew that i was poor i knew it was the
only way i could rise up
1-800 go army get your enlistment bonus
if you're in poverty today what is one
of the most accessible means
of getting out of it military service
there's always been the tendency of
those on the top
to use those of lesser means
for military service
it's a theme that is very prevalent in
this show
those who want to socially advance
through the revolution through military
service
it addresses other class issues as well
it shows how the wealthy prior to the
revolution
kind of came down to just see what the
riff raff were up to
kind of explore it i would imagine that
many of those who are out in the street
today
who are out in the street out of
self-defense
self-preservation they're speaking out
because they literally do not have a
choice
they might feel the same way about a lot
of the people who show up just to take a
selfie and then leave
tourists not truly committed
it shows hamilton and his crew
heckling those speaking out
in favor of the king it's not the image
we have of our founders
we don't really picture them meeting in
bars
we don't picture them heckling people on
the street
we don't picture them making brash
decisions
let's steal their cannons
but they did they were aggressive young
men
should have shot him in the mouth that
would have shut him up
these aren't actual quotes from these
people but they definitely reflect their
attitudes
definitely reflect the actual events
better than what we hear in our history
books
where they're painted as constantly
elegant and eloquent
they weren't that's mythology
they were normal guys and that
myth is something that probably should
be shattered
hamilton is painted as
arrogant brash and flawed
because he was he was
washington is painted as having a lot of
self-doubt
and completely aware of the fact that
his men were embellishing his elegance
and eloquence
in the us today the constitution itself
has become holy sacred yet a public
figure recently say
something to the effect of we don't
change the constitution we can't just
change the constitution apparently
completely unaware that the machinery to
change the constitution
is in the constitution
because it's part of that myth it's
perfect it's infallible
it's divine if it was perfect
and infallible and divine hamilton and
company wouldn't have needed to write 85
essays to defend it to the public and
they probably would have put their names
on them
instead of publishing them anonymously
these are things that
really should be addressed
you have a whole lot of people in this
country right now that want change
that want to change the country want to
fix the problems
but when they look in their history
books what do they see
people who are completely unlike them
as the only people who were ever
successful
at changing anything
because we overlooked the flaws
we subscribed to great man theory
the reality is everybody they were all
just people
they were brash they had flaws
and they changed things
it's probably incredibly useful
for young people today to understand
that that
image of the founders is a myth
it's not real
hamilton also addresses some of our
original sins
a common belief today is that
basically all the founders were okay
with slavery it's just what was done at
the time they didn't know any better it
was a necessary evil
that's not true in fact the spiritual
and philosophical founder of the
revolution
wrote abolitionist texts before he ever
pinned anything
in favor of revolution
most a hamilton circle or abolitionist
to some degree
and it points us out in a cabinet
meeting
a scene of a cabinet meeting which is
done in the form of a rap battle
between hamilton and jefferson
and hamilton points out that maybe it
not may not be the best idea
to take a civics lesson from a slaver
because hey neighbor your debts are paid
because you don't pay for labor
the whole idea at the time hamilton
wanted the federal government to assume
states debts after the war
those in the south including jefferson
didn't want to do that
because their states didn't have much
debt
so they didn't feel like they should pay
a share of
new york's those states in the north
this little disagreement
highlighted some other stuff if you say
quid pro quo today
you think of corruption right something
that's just
unthinkable except
madison at hamilton had a dinner
arranged by jefferson in private no one
else was in the room where it happened
where they kind of hammered out the
details of assuming state's debts
hamilton got his banks and the
southerners got dc
that kind of corruption it's been here
since the beginning if you want to look
into this it's called the compromise of
1790.
1790. the government didn't become
corrupt it was always corrupt because it
always had people in it
and then you have aaron burr
who is cast as just wanting power for
power's sake
and again that's something that
we today see as a new development
all of those older politicians
especially our founders
they had the purest ideological reasons
for wanting to be in government
they didn't want power they didn't want
control
they were all doing it for the right
reasons because that's what we do
we like to overlook stuff
turn a blind eye to it until it's been
so long we can pretend
like those people are so far removed
from us we would never do that but the
reality is there's stuff happening today
that we know is wrong
and we're not looking at it we're
looking away
and a hundred years from now
i'm sure americans may tell themselves
oh that's really
how they just had to do it nobody knew
any better
it was a necessary evil
our government didn't become tainted it
didn't become corrupt
it was always tainted because have
people in it
people are corruptable people are flawed
they're not myths they're not infallible
they're not perfect
and this is something that a generation
that wants change probably needs to hear
if you were one of those people who
really wants that deep systemic change
in this country
and you're young and all you've heard
are the images of our founders
in your textbooks
how are you supposed to compare to that
it does all of this without
attacking the ideals of american
because it still is that
orphaned immigrant rags to riches
self-made self-educated man who
got to live the american dream because
he didn't throw away his shot
because the fates brought him and this
group of people together
and they worked like they were running
out of time because they were just
non-stop
in pursuit of their goals and that's why
they succeeded
it's still framed in a very american
context
but it undermines that mythology that
has to be undermined at this point
it's holding the country back
there are a lot of people who probably
hear this
and it resonates with them even if they
don't
consciously acknowledge what they're
hearing or what they're seeing
they're seeing that story taught in a
new way
and in a way that is relevant to them
burr's big criticism of hamilton
is asking why do you always say what you
believe
i would imagine that there are young
people today
who feel like they're being asked that
all the time
when they speak out against problems
that
we really are running out of time to
deal with
and they're mocked they're told that
they don't understand the world
that politics is more important
these are themes that
i think a lot of people could uh benefit
from exploring
and at the end
that person who could have changed so
much more
could have been an even greater asset
to the country and to his community was
gunned down
by somebody who wanted power for power's
sake
i don't know how it couldn't resonate
today
it's incredibly relatable this should
teach us a lot about how we need to
address
history if you want to create those
people
who believe they can make positive
changes
don't give them figures that are myths
don't give them people to compare to
that they can't
because that image that we give them
it's not real
and it's something that they will never
be able to live up to
which will always be a reason
for them to say that they can't change
anything
discourage them when we need
to be encouraging them
anyway it's just a thought y'all have a
good day